Time series applications work
with real time data in most of
the cases.
This chapter will provide an
example how data can be streamed
into CrateDB using Apache Kafka
and Apache Flink.
Ingesting time series data in a
streaming fashion is crucial for
several reasons.
Firstly, streaming ingestion of
time series data ensures that
the database is always up to
date, enabling accurate and
current insights.
Furthermore, it allows for real
time analysis and decision
making, which is particularly
important for industries where
immediate action based on the
latest data can lead to
significant operational
improvements or prevent
potential issues.
Lastly, it can efficiently
handle the high volume and
velocity of time series data,
ensuring that the system can
keep up with the data flow and
prevent data loss.
The architecture of the demo is
designed to handle real time
ingestion and processing of time
series data.
It starts by frequently querying
a weather API through
Http://requests to gather the
latest weather data.
This data is then pushed into a
Kafka topic, serving as a buffer
and ensuring no data is lost
even if there's a spike in
incoming data.
Then a Flink job is used to
consume the data from Kafka and
incrementally ingest it into
CrateDB.
This architecture enables real
time data analysis as the data
in CrateDB is kept up to date
with the latest weather
conditions and other services
can read either directly from
the stream or from CrateDB.
You can find the demo artifacts
in our GitHub examples
repository.
In addition to the streaming
data, these examples
demonstrates how easy it is to
work with Jason data and how
CrateDB's flexible schema
speeds up the development
process.
A complete Jason record is
returned from the Weather
Service with information about
the location and the current
weather conditions.
As the details of both sections
can change over time, both are
created as dynamic objects in
CrateDB.
There is no need for a complex
schema and type conversions
while keeping the ability to
automatically index all
individual attributes for fast
filtering and aggregations.
Without further ado, one can
create aggregations like the
calculation of the average
temperature in France.
Also, the development process
itself gets much easier.
On the producer side, we can
easily dump the Jason file into
the Kafka topic.
The Flink schema represents the
two location and current
conditions attributes, both
represented as strings, that is
Jason formatted text with the
automatic interpretation of
Jason text in CrateDB.
The actual write into the
database is executing a simple
insert of these two attributes
based on their textual
representations.
If new attributes are added to
location or current, they are
automatically added in CrateDB
as well, including type
inference and automatic indexing
for immediate querying.
Let us have a look at the actual
demonstration of the streaming
ingest process.
You can find all the resources
in our CrateDB Examples
repository on GitHub.
As a first step, please clone
the repository to your local
machine.
Once this is done, please change
into the Apache Kafka Flink
streaming directory.
It contains a couple of
resources that we will use to
demonstrate the ingest.
The NV file contains multiple
parameters that we need to set
before we can start the demo via
Docker Compose.
In order to read the data from
the Weather API, we need to
acquire a free API key.
Please visit their website
weatherapi.com, sign up for a
free account and generate a new
API key.
We will copy it into our NV
file.
Furthermore, we configure to
collect new data every 5 seconds
from the service.
After saving the configuration
settings, we start the demo via
Docker Compose.
It will automatically download
and start multiple images Kafka
and Flink including Zookeeper,
CrateDB as well as a producer
forwarding the results of API
calls into a Kafka topic.
Once the download is complete,
please open CrateDB's admin UI
in your web browser by opening
localhost 4200.
You will find an empty CrateDB
instance in which we create the
previously described table
Weather data Flink.
It contains A generated
timestamp to identify when a
record has been inserted as well
as the two sections Location and
Current Conditions as dynamic
objects leveraging CrateDB's
dynamic schema capabilities.
Once the table is created, we
see that the data from the Kafka
topic is written automatically
to CrateDB.
That is, the Flink job is
running correctly.
The first two records that
existed in the Kafka topic by
this time have been inserted
successfully.
Let us have a look at the actual
data.
As we can see, one more row has
arrived in the meantime and the
structure from the web service
call delivered in JSON has been
correctly interpreted and
inserted into the two objects.
We can now use this data for
further analysis as we
demonstrated in the previous
chapters about efficiently
querying JSON data in CrateDB.